# Optimization The Table on Redshift-Serverless 

Optimizing Amazon Redshift is important for several reasons. This is primarily done for these reasons:
- Improve performance (speed, efficient query execution)
- Cost Efficiency (Resource utilization, reduced query cost)
- Scalability (optimized clusters can handle very large datasets effectively, efficient scaling)
- Data Integrity and Accuracy (minimize data skew, accurate resut)
- Simplified maintenance and Cluster managment (reduce frequency and complexity of maintenance tasks such as vacuuming and analyzing tables)

## Optimization Strategies in this project

1.- Distribution Style
    * By default, data will be spread evenly across all compute nodes slices (EVEN distribution). This is crucial in ensuring consistent data query performance.
    - Redshift will distribute and replicate data between compute nodes;
    - If the data is denormalized and does not participate in joins, then an EVEN distribution will be very efective
    * Alternatively, for data involving too many JOINS, a Distribution key can be provided (KEY distribution)
    * The Distribution key helps distribute data across a node's slices on a per-table basis.
    * Another one is Distribution ALL.


2.- Sorting Keys
    -*Definition:* A table in Redshift can have a single Sort Key, which is a compound key consisting of 1 to 400 columns.
    - *Storage Order:* Data is stored on disk in the order of the Sort Key.
    - *Selection Criteria:* 
        - Include columns used for joining other tables.
        - Include date-type columns used in filtering operations.
    - *Metadata and Performance:* Redshift stores metadata about each data block, including the minimum value of each column. Using the Sort Key allows Redshift to skip entire blocks during a query, enhancing performance.

3.- The COPY command is used to load data into DW on Redshift. It is seemlesly easy and faster as the compressed data is already located in an S3 bucket as an object.
    - The compressed data is lighter and this also comtribute majorly to optmizing the COPY command. 


### The table optimization was implemented in the SQL script used in creating the tables 